=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Ado::Manual::Installation - Various ways to install and deploy Ado 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

We strongly recommend using Ado with L<your own
Perl|https://metacpan.org/pod/distribution/App-perlbrew/bin/perlbrew> (not the
system-wide)! This will give you freedom to install modules from CPAN etc.

Get a precompiled Perl distro like "Citrus Perl"
(L<http://www.citrusperl.com/download.html>) or "ActivePerl Community Edition"
(L<http://www.activestate.com/activeperl/downloads>) for your OS,  or build your
own using L<App::perlbrew>.

Ado can be downloaded from L<CPAN|http://search.cpan.org/dist/Ado/> and
installed manually or installed into any folder of your choice. By default it
goes into the C<siteprefix> folder of the perl distribution used for
installation.


=head1 INSTALLATION METHODS

When installing Ado in its own folder, you may want to add the
C</path/to/ado/bin> to your C<$PATH> environment variable.

=head2 MANUAL

To install manually Ado after downloading, run the following commands:

  tar -zxf Ado-X.XX.tar.gz
  cd Ado-X.XX/
  perl Build.PL --install_base $HOME/opt/ado
  #or if you want it in your Perl file tree
  perl Build.PL
  ./Build installdeps
  ./Build
  ./Build test
  ./Build install

=head2 CPAN

  cpanm -n -l Ado
  --> Working on Ado
  Fetching http://www.cpan.org/authors/id/B/BE/BEROV/Ado-0.87.tar.gz ... OK
  Configuring Ado-0.87 ... OK
  Building Ado-0.87 ... OK
  Successfully installed Ado-0.87 (upgraded from 0.86)
  1 distribution installed
  
  #or
  
  cpan Ado
  Running install for module 'Ado'
  Running make for B/BE/BEROV/Ado-0.85.tar.gz
  ...  
  ...
    BEROV/Ado-0.85.tar.gz
  ./Build install install  -- OK

=head2 PERLBREW

Installing Ado under your own perlbrew environment

  perlbrew init
  perlbrew install -n perl-5.18.1 --as ado -j 3
  perlbrew switch ado
  perlbrew install-cpanm
  cpanm Ado

=head2 Carton

Installing Ado using Carton

  echo 'requires "Ado";' > cpanfile
  carton install
  carton exec local/bin/ado daemon

=head2 local::lib

Be warned that L<local::lib>, installed on some shared hosting providers'
machines, sets the environment variables  C<$PERL5LIB, $PERL_LOCAL_LIB_ROOT,
$PERL_MB_OPT, $PERL_MM_OPT>. If you are aware and expect Ado to be installed in
C<$PERL_LOCAL_LIB_ROOT> (usually C<~/perl5>) then fine. If you are using your
own Perl and not the provided on the machine, you have to reset those variables
while installing Ado. Otherwise you may be unpleasantly surprised. For
ActivePerl it may be best to install Ado dependencies using L<PPM>.  Ado is
available as L<PPM> package too.

  export PERL_MB_OPT='--install_base /home/you/example.com'
  #your own perl is already in $PATH and dependencies are installed
  perl Build.PL
  ./Build install

=head2 DUMMY

May be you want to just unwrap and run it...

  mkdir ~/ado && cd ~/ado && wget https://github.com/kberov/Ado/archive/v0.87.zip
  unzip v0.87.zip
  Ado-0.87/bin/ado daemon
  #Server available at http://127.0.0.1:3000

=head2 SUMMARY

Ado can be installed and deployed in many different ways. At the end it is
simply a Perl module which happen to be a Mojolicious application. For
inspiration, please read  L<Mojolicious::Guides::Cookbook/DEPLOYMENT> and maybe
try L<Ado::Command::generate::apache2htaccess>. Now you can follow the
instructions, found on the home-page
L<http://127.0.0.1:3000|http://127.0.0.1:3000>. But to grow with Ado, you should
install and create some plugins. See L<Ado::Manual::Plugins>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Ado::Manual>, L<Ado>, L<Mojolicious::Guides>, 
L<Module::Build::Cookbook/prefix_vs_install_base>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2013-2015 Красимир Беров (Krasimir Berov).

This program is free software, you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the 
GNU Lesser General Public License v3 (LGPL-3.0).
