=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Ado::Manual::Intro - General overview


=head1 What is Ado?

Ado was started in November 2013 as a rewrite of a previous project
(L<MYDLjE|https://github.com/kberov/MYDLjE>) based on Mojolicious 1.9x. MYDLjE
was too monolithic. It was not possible to start with minimum features, disable
some of them and re-enable them only if needed.  Ado is much more modular and
flexible than MYDLjE and its name is not an acronym :).

Ado's purpose is the same as of MYDLjE – to quickly put together a lightweight
web application and/or site based on Mojolicious with scalability, performance
and growth in mind. An Ado system starts as a minimal application that can turn
into an ERP, a CMS, a CRM or all in one by just adding plugins along the way as
the organization which is using it grows.

It comes with default configuration and a model L<Ado::Model>, loaded at
L<Ado/startup> by L<Mojolicious::Plugin::DSC>. An SQLite database is bundled
with the distribution at C<etc/ado.sqlite> to get started quickly.

Ado provides additional L<plugins|Ado::Plugin> and L<commands|Ado::Command>,
which promote L<RAD|http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rapid_application_development>,
good practices, and team-work. The default Ado page uses L<Semantic UI|http
://semantic-ui.com/> via L<Mojolicious::Plugin::SemanticUI> and is a good place
to get acquainted. In short, Ado can be used right away as a
L<CMS|http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content_management_system> that can be
extended with L<plugins|Ado::Manual::Plugins> and L<commands|Ado::Command> or as
a L<CMF|http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_content_management_frameworks> on
which to build many different specific applications.

Here is the directory structure. It does not contain the files

  Ado
  ├── bin
  ├── etc
  │   ├── commands
  │   └── plugins
  ├── lib
  │   └── Ado
  │       ├── Command
  │       │   └── generate
  │       ├── Control
  │       ├── I18n
  │       ├── Manual
  │       ├── Model
  │       ├── Plugin
  │       └── Sessions
  ├── log
  ├── public
  │   ├── css
  │   │   └── flags
  │   ├── doc
  │   │   ├── bg
  │   │   │   └── img
  │   │   └── en
  │   ├── fonts
  │   ├── img
  │   ├── js
  │   └── vendor
  │       ├── crypto-js
  │       │   └── rollups
  │       └── pagedown
  ├── site_templates
  ├── t
  │   ├── ado
  │   │   ├── etc
  │   │   │   └── plugins
  │   │   └── lib
  │   │       └── Ado
  │   │           └── Plugin
  │   ├── command
  │   ├── plugin
  │   └── sessions
  └── templates
      ├── default
      ├── doc
      ├── layouts
      ├── partials
      └── test










=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Ado::Manual>, L<Ado::Manual::Installation>, L<Mojolicious::Guides>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2013-2015 Красимир Беров (Krasimir Berov).

This program is free software, you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the 
GNU Lesser General Public License v3 (LGPL-3.0).

